PACKAGING.md, before:

Information for Packagers
=========================

# Upstream URLs

You can use <https://www.zrythm.org/releases>
to fetch tarballs. The project's home page is
<https://www.zrythm.org>. The main git repositories
are found on our
[Gitea instance](https://git.zrythm.org/zrythm/).

# Versioning

Starting from v1.0.0-alpha.0.1.0, Zrythm follows
the following
[Semantic Versioning (SemVer) 2.0.0](https://semver.org/)
scheme:

```yaml
---
API changes: project file/directory, user directory and settings changes
MAJOR: Manually incremented for breaking API changes
MINOR: Manually incremented for non-breaking API changes
PATCH: Automatically incremented based on number of commits since ${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.0

release tags:
  pre-alpha:
    description: Starts when work on a new major version starts
    identifier: ${unreleased major ver}.0.0-DEV.${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.{PATCH}
    examples: 2.0.0-DEV.0.1.0, 2.0.0-DEV.0.32.1
  alpha:
    description: Starts when a major version under development is somewhat usable
    identifier: ${unreleased major ver}.0.0-alpha.${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.{PATCH}
    examples: 2.0.0-alpha.0.1.0, 2.0.0-alpha.0.32.1
  beta:
    description: Starts when all features expected to break API are implemented
    identifier: ${unreleased major ver}.0.0-beta.${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.{PATCH}
    examples: 2.0.0-beta.0.1.0, 2.0.0-beta.0.32.1
  rc:
    description: Starts when all features are implemented and all known bugs are fixed
    identifier: ${unreleased major ver}.0.0-rc.${manually incremented for each release}
    examples: 2.0.0-rc.0, 2.0.0-rc.32
  v1, 2, 3, etc.:
    description: Starts when all features for the major ver are stable
    identifier: ${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.${PATCH}
    examples: 2.0.0, 2.32.1

nightlies:
  - ${release tag}+r${number of commits since last tag}.g${commit hash}
```

# Included Programs

For various reasons, Zrythm ships with some
libraries/resources that could be packaged
separately. If you wish to package them separately
and make Zrythm use them, you can pass the flags
found in `meson_options.txt`.

# Debug Symbols

Please do not strip symbols to assist with
meaningful stack traces which are sent with bug
reports.

# Docs

See the `manpage` and `user_manual` meson options.

# Post-Install Commands

Depending on the distro, some of the
following commands will need to be run with
appropriate options. Some distros run these
automatically.

    glib-compile-schemas
    fc-cache
    gtk-update-icon-cache
    update-mime-database
    update-desktop-database
    update-gdk-pixbuf-loaders

See the
[post-install script](scripts/meson-post-install.sh)
for more details.

# Trademarks
As mentioned in the
[Trademark Policy](TRADEMARKS.md),
if you wish to distribute modified versions of
Zrythm, you must either get permission or replace
the name and logo.

To replace the trademarked name and logo, you can use
the `program_name` and `custom_logo_and_splash` meson
options, after replacing all files inside
`data/icon-themes/zrythm-dark/scalable/apps`. There
may be more things that need to be changed that
we missed. If you find any, please let us know.

----

Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Alexandros Theodotou

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
without any warranty.

Commit message:

PACKAGING: point to sourcehut instead of gitea

PACKAGING.md, after:

Information for Packagers
=========================

# Upstream URLs

You can use <https://www.zrythm.org/releases>
to fetch tarballs. The project's home page is
<https://www.zrythm.org>. The main git repositories
for packagers and the general public are on
[SourceHut](https://git.sr.ht/~alextee/zrythm).

# Versioning

Starting from v1.0.0-alpha.0.1.0, Zrythm follows
the following
[Semantic Versioning (SemVer) 2.0.0](https://semver.org/)
scheme:

```yaml
---
API changes: project file/directory, user directory and settings changes
MAJOR: Manually incremented for breaking API changes
MINOR: Manually incremented for non-breaking API changes
PATCH: Automatically incremented based on number of commits since ${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.0

release tags:
  pre-alpha:
    description: Starts when work on a new major version starts
    identifier: ${unreleased major ver}.0.0-DEV.${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.{PATCH}
    examples: 2.0.0-DEV.0.1.0, 2.0.0-DEV.0.32.1
  alpha:
    description: Starts when a major version under development is somewhat usable
    identifier: ${unreleased major ver}.0.0-alpha.${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.{PATCH}
    examples: 2.0.0-alpha.0.1.0, 2.0.0-alpha.0.32.1
  beta:
    description: Starts when all features expected to break API are implemented
    identifier: ${unreleased major ver}.0.0-beta.${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.{PATCH}
    examples: 2.0.0-beta.0.1.0, 2.0.0-beta.0.32.1
  rc:
    description: Starts when all features are implemented and all known bugs are fixed
    identifier: ${unreleased major ver}.0.0-rc.${manually incremented for each release}
    examples: 2.0.0-rc.0, 2.0.0-rc.32
  v1, 2, 3, etc.:
    description: Starts when all features for the major ver are stable
    identifier: ${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.${PATCH}
    examples: 2.0.0, 2.32.1

nightlies:
  - ${release tag}+r${number of commits since last tag}.g${commit hash}
```

# Included Programs

For various reasons, Zrythm ships with some
libraries/resources that could be packaged
separately. If you wish to package them separately
and make Zrythm use them, you can pass the flags
found in `meson_options.txt`.

# Debug Symbols

Please do not strip symbols to assist with
meaningful stack traces which are sent with bug
reports.

# Docs

See the `manpage` and `user_manual` meson options.

# Post-Install Commands

Depending on the distro, some of the
following commands will need to be run with
appropriate options. Some distros run these
automatically.

    glib-compile-schemas
    fc-cache
    gtk-update-icon-cache
    update-mime-database
    update-desktop-database
    update-gdk-pixbuf-loaders

See the
[post-install script](scripts/meson-post-install.sh)
for more details.

# Trademarks
As mentioned in the
[Trademark Policy](TRADEMARKS.md),
if you wish to distribute modified versions of
Zrythm, you must either get permission or replace
the name and logo.

To replace the trademarked name and logo, you can use
the `program_name` and `custom_logo_and_splash` meson
options, after replacing all files inside
`data/icon-themes/zrythm-dark/scalable/apps`. There
may be more things that need to be changed that
we missed. If you find any, please let us know.

----

Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Alexandros Theodotou

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
without any warranty.
