README.md, before:

<!---
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2018-2024 Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>
SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP
-->

Zrythm
======

[![translated](https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/zrythm/-/svg-badge.svg "Translation Status")](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/zrythm/?utm_source=widget)

*a highly automated and intuitive digital audio workstation*

![screenshot](https://www.zrythm.org/static/images/screenshots/screenshot-20240208.png)

Zrythm is a digital audio workstation tailored for both professionals and beginners, offering an intuitive interface and robust functionality.

Key features include:
* Streamlined editing workflows
* Flexible tools for creative expression
* Limitless automation capabilities
* Powerful mixing features
* Chord assistance for musical composition
* Support for various plugin and file formats

Zrythm is
[free software](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html)
written in C/C++ using the
[GTK4](https://docs.gtk.org/gtk4/overview.html)
toolkit.

## Features

- Object looping, cloning, linking and stretching
- Adaptive snapping
- Multiple lanes per track
- Bounce anything to audio or MIDI
- Piano roll (MIDI editor) with chord integration, drum mode and a lollipop velocity editor
- Audio editor with part editing (including in external app) and adjustable gain/fades
- Event viewers (list editors) with editable object parameters
- Per-context object functions
- Audio/MIDI/automation recording with options to punch in/out, record on MIDI input and create takes
- Device-bindable parameters for external control
- Wide variety of track types for every purpose
- Signal manipulation with signal groups, aux sends and direct anywhere-to-anywhere connections
- In-context listening by dimming other tracks
- Automate anything using automation events or CV signal from modulator plugins and macro knobs
- Detachable views for multi-monitor setups
- Searchable preferences
- Support for LV2/CLAP/VST2/VST3/AU/LADSPA/DSSI plugins, SFZ/SF2 SoundFonts, Type 0 and 1 MIDI files, and almost every audio file format
- Flexible built-in file and plugin browsers
- Optional plugin sandboxing (bridging)
- Stem export
- Chord pad with built-in and user presets, including the ability to generate chords from scales
- Automatic project backups
- Undoable user actions with serializable undo history
- Hardware-accelerated UI
- SIMD-optimized DSP
- Cross-platform, cross-audio/MIDI backend and cross-architecture
- Available in multiple languages including Chinese, Japanese, Russian, Portuguese, French and German

For a full list of features, see the
[Features page](https://www.zrythm.org/en/features.html)
on our website.

## Building and Installation
See [INSTALL.rst](INSTALL.rst) for build
instructions. Prebuilt packages/installers
available at
<https://www.zrythm.org/en/download.html>.

## Using
See the [user manual](http://manual.zrythm.org/).

## Contributing
See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Hacking
See [HACKING.md](HACKING.md) and the
[developer docs](https://docs.zrythm.org/).

## Packaging
See [PACKAGING.md](PACKAGING.md).

## Forum
See [our forum](https://forum.zrythm.org).

## Chat
* [#zrythmdaw:matrix.org on Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#zrythmdaw:matrix.org).
* [#zrythm on Libera.Chat IRC](https://web.libera.chat/#zrythm).

## Issue tracker
See [Issues on GitLab](https://gitlab.zrythm.org/zrythm/zrythm/issues).

## Releases
<https://www.zrythm.org/releases>

## Copying Zrythm
[![agpl-3.0](https://www.gnu.org/graphics/agplv3-with-text-162x68.png)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0)

See [COPYING](COPYING) for general copying
conditions and [TRADEMARKS.md](TRADEMARKS.md) for
our trademark policy.

## Support
If you would like to support this project please
donate below or purchase a binary installer from
<https://www.zrythm.org/en/download.html> - creating
a DAW takes years of work and contributions enable
us to spend more time working on the project.

- [liberapay.com/Zrythm](https://liberapay.com/Zrythm/donate)
- [paypal.me/zrythmdaw](https://paypal.me/zrythmdaw)
- [ko-fi.com/zrythm](https://ko-fi.com/zrythm)
- [opencollective.com/zrythm](https://opencollective.com/zrythm/donate)
- Bitcoin (BTC): `bc1qjfyu2ruyfwv3r6u4hf2nvdh900djep2dlk746j`
- Litecoin (LTC): `ltc1qpva5up8vu8k03r8vncrfhu5apkd7p4cgy4355a`
- Monero (XMR): `87YVi6nqwDhAQwfAuB8a7UeD6wrr81PJG4yBxkkGT3Ri5ng9D1E91hdbCCQsi3ZzRuXiX3aRWesS95S8ij49YMBKG3oEfnr`

Commit message:

README: mention that this is the qt branch

README.md, after:

<!---
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2018-2024 Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>
SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP
-->

Zrythm
======

**IMPORTANT: Zrythm is undergoing major refactoring in this branch - if you are looking for a usable version see the `v1` branch**

[![translated](https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/zrythm/-/svg-badge.svg "Translation Status")](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/zrythm/?utm_source=widget)

*a highly automated and intuitive digital audio workstation*

![screenshot](https://www.zrythm.org/static/images/screenshots/screenshot-20240208.png)

Zrythm is a digital audio workstation tailored for both professionals and beginners, offering an intuitive interface and robust functionality.

Key features include:
* Streamlined editing workflows
* Flexible tools for creative expression
* Limitless automation capabilities
* Powerful mixing features
* Chord assistance for musical composition
* Support for various plugin and file formats

Zrythm is [free software](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html) written
in C/C++ using the Qt6/QML and JUCE8 frameworks.

## Features

- Object looping, cloning, linking and stretching
- Adaptive snapping
- Multiple lanes per track
- Bounce anything to audio or MIDI
- Piano roll (MIDI editor) with chord integration, drum mode and a lollipop velocity editor
- Audio editor with part editing (including in external app) and adjustable gain/fades
- Event viewers (list editors) with editable object parameters
- Per-context object functions
- Audio/MIDI/automation recording with options to punch in/out, record on MIDI input and create takes
- Device-bindable parameters for external control
- Wide variety of track types for every purpose
- Signal manipulation with signal groups, aux sends and direct anywhere-to-anywhere connections
- In-context listening by dimming other tracks
- Automate anything using automation events or CV signal from modulator plugins and macro knobs
- Detachable views for multi-monitor setups
- Searchable preferences
- Support for LV2/CLAP/VST2/VST3/AU/LADSPA/DSSI plugins, SFZ/SF2 SoundFonts, Type 0 and 1 MIDI files, and almost every audio file format
- Flexible built-in file and plugin browsers
- Optional plugin sandboxing (bridging)
- Stem export
- Chord pad with built-in and user presets, including the ability to generate chords from scales
- Automatic project backups
- Undoable user actions with serializable undo history
- Hardware-accelerated UI
- SIMD-optimized DSP
- Cross-platform, cross-audio/MIDI backend and cross-architecture
- Available in multiple languages including Chinese, Japanese, Russian, Portuguese, French and German

For a full list of features, see the
[Features page](https://www.zrythm.org/en/features.html)
on our website.

## Building and Installation
See [INSTALL.rst](INSTALL.rst) for build
instructions. Prebuilt packages/installers
available at
<https://www.zrythm.org/en/download.html>.

## Using
See the [user manual](http://manual.zrythm.org/).

## Contributing
See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Hacking
See [HACKING.md](HACKING.md) and the
[developer docs](https://docs.zrythm.org/).

## Packaging
See [PACKAGING.md](PACKAGING.md).

## Forum
See [our forum](https://forum.zrythm.org).

## Chat
* [#zrythmdaw:matrix.org on Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#zrythmdaw:matrix.org).
* [#zrythm on Libera.Chat IRC](https://web.libera.chat/#zrythm).

## Issue tracker
See [Issues on GitLab](https://gitlab.zrythm.org/zrythm/zrythm/issues).

## Releases
<https://www.zrythm.org/releases>

## Copying Zrythm
[![agpl-3.0](https://www.gnu.org/graphics/agplv3-with-text-162x68.png)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0)

See [COPYING](COPYING) for general copying
conditions and [TRADEMARKS.md](TRADEMARKS.md) for
our trademark policy.

## Support
If you would like to support this project please
donate below or purchase a binary installer from
<https://www.zrythm.org/en/download.html> - creating
a DAW takes years of work and contributions enable
us to spend more time working on the project.

- [liberapay.com/Zrythm](https://liberapay.com/Zrythm/donate)
- [paypal.me/zrythmdaw](https://paypal.me/zrythmdaw)
- [ko-fi.com/zrythm](https://ko-fi.com/zrythm)
- [opencollective.com/zrythm](https://opencollective.com/zrythm/donate)
- Bitcoin (BTC): `bc1qjfyu2ruyfwv3r6u4hf2nvdh900djep2dlk746j`
- Litecoin (LTC): `ltc1qpva5up8vu8k03r8vncrfhu5apkd7p4cgy4355a`
- Monero (XMR): `87YVi6nqwDhAQwfAuB8a7UeD6wrr81PJG4yBxkkGT3Ri5ng9D1E91hdbCCQsi3ZzRuXiX3aRWesS95S8ij49YMBKG3oEfnr`
