doc/user/getting-started/installation.rst, before:

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2019-2022 Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-invariants-or-later
.. This is part of the Zrythm Manual.
   See the file index.rst for copying conditions.

.. sectionauthor:: Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>

Installation
============

.. _installers:

Installers
----------
You can install the latest version of
Zrythm for your distro or operating system using an
installer from the
`Download <https://www.zrythm.org/en/download.html>`_
page on our website.

This is the easiest and recommended way to install
the latest version for most users, and we provide
support for it.

.. tip:: The installers also include bundled plugins.

Flatpak
-------
Zrythm is available on `Flathub`_ under the ID
`org.zrythm.Zrythm`_.

Distribution Repositories
-------------------------
If Zrythm is available in your distro's repositories,
you can also install it from there.

Building from Source
--------------------
You can build Zrythm from source, either using
a `source distribution tarball <https://www.zrythm.org/releases/>`_
or `git <https://git.zrythm.org/zrythm/zrythm/>`_.

See ``INSTALL.rst`` in
the source distribution for installation
instructions.

.. _Flathub: https://flathub.org
.. _org.zrythm.Zrythm: https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.zrythm.Zrythm

Commit message:

manual: add note about windows installations

doc/user/getting-started/installation.rst, after:

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2019-2022 Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-invariants-or-later
.. This is part of the Zrythm Manual.
   See the file index.rst for copying conditions.

.. sectionauthor:: Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>

Installation
============

.. _installers:

Installers
----------
You can install the latest version of
Zrythm for your distro or operating system using an
installer from the
`Download <https://www.zrythm.org/en/download.html>`_
page on our website.

This is the easiest and recommended way to install
the latest version for most users, and we provide
support for it.

.. tip:: The installers also include bundled plugins.

Windows
+++++++

.. important::
  On Windows, Zrythm will only work when installed in the default
  path. Installing Zrythm to external hard drives or setting the
  Zrythm user path to external hard drives is not supported.

Flatpak
-------
Zrythm is available on `Flathub`_ under the ID
`org.zrythm.Zrythm`_.

Distribution Repositories
-------------------------
If Zrythm is available in your distro's repositories,
you can also install it from there.

Building from Source
--------------------
You can build Zrythm from source, either using
a `source distribution tarball <https://www.zrythm.org/releases/>`_
or `git <https://git.zrythm.org/zrythm/zrythm/>`_.

See ``INSTALL.rst`` in
the source distribution for installation
instructions.

.. _Flathub: https://flathub.org
.. _org.zrythm.Zrythm: https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.zrythm.Zrythm
