doc/user/getting-started/system-requirements.rst, before:

.. This is part of the Zrythm Manual.
   Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Alexandros Theodotou <alex at zrythm dot org>
   See the file index.rst for copying conditions.

System Requirements
===================

Hardware
--------
- x86_64 (64-bit), i686 (32-bit), powerpc64le (PowerPC), armhf (ARMv7) or aarch64 (ARMv8)

Operating System
----------------
- GNU/Linux, FreeBSD, Windows or MacOS

Recommendations
---------------

CPU
  For smooth operation, we recommend using a CPU
  with at least 2GHz clock speed and at least 4
  cores in total.
Monitor
  It is recommended to have at least 16 inches of
  monitor space to work efficiently with Zrythm.
Audio interface
  An audio interface offers low latency and better
  quality than integrated sound cards (especially if
  recording audio).
MIDI keyboard
  For quickly trying out melodies, recording and
  controlling knobs and buttons.

JACK
----
When using the :term:`JACK` backend, JACK needs to
be set up
and configured before running Zrythm. You will find
lots of information online about how to configure
JACK, such as
`Demystifying JACK - A Beginners Guide to Getting Started with JACK <https://linuxaudio.github.io/libremusicproduction/html/articles/demystifying-jack-%E2%80%93-beginners-guide-getting-started-jack.html>`_,
so we will skip this part.

Memory Locking
--------------
Zrythm requires memory locking privileges for
reliable, dropout-free operation. In short, if
data is not locked into memory, it can be swapped
by the kernel, causing xruns when attempting to
access the data.

GNU/Linux
+++++++++
To set up these privileges for your user, see
`How do I configure my linux system to allow JACK to use realtime scheduling? <https://jackaudio.org/faq/linux_rt_config.html#systems-using-pam>`_.

FreeBSD
+++++++
To set up these privileges for your user, change
the user class' ``memorylocked`` value in
:file:`/etc/login.conf`.

Open File Limit
---------------
On startup, Zrythm will attempt to increase the
maximum limit of files it can open. You should give
your user enough permissions to allow this.

Commit message:

fix RT scheduling
Also add argument for non-blocking UI messages.

doc/user/getting-started/system-requirements.rst, after:

.. This is part of the Zrythm Manual.
   Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Alexandros Theodotou <alex at zrythm dot org>
   See the file index.rst for copying conditions.

System Requirements
===================

Hardware
--------
- x86_64 (64-bit), i686 (32-bit), powerpc64le (PowerPC), armhf (ARMv7) or aarch64 (ARMv8)

Operating System
----------------
- GNU/Linux, FreeBSD, Windows or MacOS

Recommendations
---------------

CPU
  For smooth operation, we recommend using a CPU
  with at least 2GHz clock speed and at least 4
  cores in total.
Monitor
  It is recommended to have at least 16 inches of
  monitor space to work efficiently with Zrythm.
Audio interface
  An audio interface offers low latency and better
  quality than integrated sound cards (especially if
  recording audio).
MIDI keyboard
  For quickly trying out melodies, recording and
  controlling knobs and buttons.

JACK
----
When using the :term:`JACK` backend, JACK needs to
be set up
and configured before running Zrythm. You will find
lots of information online about how to configure
JACK, such as
`Demystifying JACK - A Beginners Guide to Getting Started with JACK <https://linuxaudio.github.io/libremusicproduction/html/articles/demystifying-jack-%E2%80%93-beginners-guide-getting-started-jack.html>`_,
so we will skip this part.

Memory Locking
--------------
Zrythm requires memory locking privileges for
reliable, dropout-free operation. In short, if
data is not locked into memory, it can be swapped
by the kernel, causing xruns when attempting to
access the data.

Realtime Scheduling
-------------------
Zrythm requires realtime scheduling privileges for
reliable, dropout-free operation. Realtime (RT)
scheduling is a feature that enables applications to
meet timing deadlines more reliably.

GNU/Linux
+++++++++
To set up these privileges for your user, see
`How do I configure my linux system to allow JACK to use realtime scheduling? <https://jackaudio.org/faq/linux_rt_config.html#systems-using-pam>`_.

FreeBSD
+++++++
To set up these privileges for your user, change
the user class' ``memorylocked`` value in
:file:`/etc/login.conf`.

Open File Limit
---------------
On startup, Zrythm will attempt to increase the
maximum limit of files it can open. You should give
your user enough permissions to allow this.
