doc/user/glossary/intro.rst, before:

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2020 Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-invariants-or-later
   This is part of the Zrythm Manual.
   See the file index.rst for copying conditions.

.. sectionauthor:: Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>

Glossary
========

.. glossary::

  a2jmidid
    a2jmidid is an application that bridges between
    the system MIDI ports and :term:`JACK`.

  AU
    A proprietary plugin standard, mainly used on
    MacOS. We recommend using :term:`LV2` instead.

  Balance
    Balance (or :term:`Stereo` balance) is the
    left-right balance of a stereo audio signal.

  Bounce
    Bouncing means exporting to audio.

  BPM
    The :abbr:`BPM (Beats Per Minute)` is the
    tempo of the song.

  Carla
    A
    `plugin host <https://kx.studio/Applications:Carla>`_
    that provides a library Zrythm uses to load some
    plugins. Plugins loaded through Carla can be
    bridged to separate processes.

  CLI
    :abbr:`CLI (Command Line Interface)` is the
    interface users interact with when typing
    commands in a terminal.

  Clip
    Used interchangeably with
    :ref:`region <regions>`.

  Control
    A control is a :doc:`port <../routing/ports>`
    with a user-changeable control value that
    affects a processor, such as a plugin. For
    example, a gain control. Used interchangeably
    with :term:`Parameter`.

  CV
    In a software environment,
    :abbr:`CV (Control Voltage)` represents
    audio-rate control data.

  DAW
    A :abbr:`DAW (Digital Audio Workstation)` is
    software used to compose, record, edit, arrange,
    mix and master music.

  DSP
    In the context of a :term:`DAW`,
    :abbr:`DSP (Digital Signal Processing)` means
    audio signal processing.

  Free software
    Free/libre software means users control the
    program, as opposed to proprietary software,
    where the program controls the users.

  JACK
    :abbr:`JACK (JACK Audio Connection Kit)` is a
    sound
    server that offers low latency for users and
    provides a simple API for developers. It is the
    de facto standard sound server for professional
    audio on GNU/Linux.

  LV2
    :abbr:`LV2 (LADSPA Version 2)` is an extensible,
    cross-platform open standard for audio
    plugins. LV2 has a simple core interface, which
    is accompanied by extensions that add more
    advanced functionality.

  MIDI
    :abbr:`MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital Interface)`
    is a technical standard for communication
    between musical instruments and computers.

  MIDI note
    :term:`MIDI` Notes are used to trigger virtual
    (or hardware) instruments.

    .. image:: /_static/img/midi_note.png
       :align: center

  Mono
    A single-channel audio signal (see also
    :term:`Stereo`).

  Pan law
    TODO

  Panning
    Panning is the distribution of a :term:`Mono`
    signal
    into a new stereo or multi-channel sound field.

  Parameter
    Used interchangeably with :term:`Control`.

  Plugin
    A plugin is an external module that provides
    audio processing capabilities to Zrythm, such
    as an :term:`SFZ` instrument or an :term:`LV2`
    reverb plugin.

  Project
    A project refers to a work session. It is saved
    as a directory containing a project file along
    with other auxiliary files. See :ref:`Projects`
    for more details.

  Range
    A Range is a selection of time between two
    positions.

    .. image:: /_static/img/ranges.png
       :align: center

  Region
    A region (or :term:`Clip`) is a container for
    MIDI Notes, audio or other events. See
    :ref:`regions`.

  SFZ
    SFZ is a file format for sample-based
    virtual instruments.

  SF2
    SF2 is the successor of :term:`SFZ`.

  Stereo
    A two-channel audio signal (left and right) (see
    also :term:`Mono`).

  VST2
    A proprietary plugin standard and the predecessor
    of VST3. We do not recommend using this standard.

  VST3
    VST3 is a plugin standard that supersedes
    :term:`VST2`. It is better to use VST3 than VST2,
    because it is released as :term:`Free software`.
    However, we recommend using the :term:`LV2`
    standard instead.

  XRUN
    A buffer overrun or underrun. This means that
    Zrythm was either not fast enough to deliver
    data to the backend or not fast enough to process
    incoming data from the backend. Usually XRUNs
    are audible as crackles or pops.
    XRUNs usually occur when when the audio engine's
    buffer size is too low and the sound card
    cannot process incoming buffers fast enough
    (overrun). Some sound cards cannot cope with
    small buffer sizes, so the buffer length should
    be increased to ease the work done by the sound
    card.

Commit message:

user manual: update plugins section (WIP)

doc/user/glossary/intro.rst, after:

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2020, 2024 Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-invariants-or-later
   This is part of the Zrythm Manual.
   See the file index.rst for copying conditions.

.. sectionauthor:: Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>

Glossary
========

.. glossary::

  a2jmidid
    a2jmidid is an application that bridges between
    the system MIDI ports and :term:`JACK`.

  AU
    A plugin standard developed by Apple, mainly used on MacOS.

  Balance
    Balance (or :term:`Stereo` balance) is the
    left-right balance of a stereo audio signal.

  Bounce
    Bouncing means exporting to audio.

  BPM
    The :abbr:`BPM (Beats Per Minute)` is the
    tempo of the song.

  Carla
    A
    `plugin host <https://kx.studio/Applications:Carla>`_
    that provides a library Zrythm uses to load some
    plugins. Plugins loaded through Carla can be
    bridged to separate processes.

  CLI
    :abbr:`CLI (Command Line Interface)` is the
    interface users interact with when typing
    commands in a terminal.

  Clip
    Used interchangeably with
    :ref:`region <regions>`.

  Control
    A control is a :doc:`port <../routing/ports>`
    with a user-changeable control value that
    affects a processor, such as a plugin. For
    example, a gain control. Used interchangeably
    with :term:`Parameter`.

  CV
    In a software environment,
    :abbr:`CV (Control Voltage)` represents
    audio-rate control data.

  DAW
    A :abbr:`DAW (Digital Audio Workstation)` is
    software used to compose, record, edit, arrange,
    mix and master music.

  DSP
    In the context of a :term:`DAW`,
    :abbr:`DSP (Digital Signal Processing)` means
    audio signal processing.

  DSSI
    :abbr:`DSSI (Disposable Soft Synth Interface)` is a plugin standard for
    instrument plugins, that has been superseded by :term:`LV2`.

  Free software
    Free/libre software means users control the
    program, as opposed to proprietary software,
    where the program controls the users.

  JACK
    :abbr:`JACK (JACK Audio Connection Kit)` is a
    sound
    server that offers low latency for users and
    provides a simple API for developers. It is the
    de facto standard sound server for professional
    audio on GNU/Linux.

  LADSPA
    :abbr:`LADSPA (Linux Audio Developers Simple Plugin API)` is an old
    plugin standard for effect plugins that has been superseded by
    :term:`LV2`.

  LV2
    :abbr:`LV2 (LADSPA Version 2)` is an extensible,
    cross-platform open standard for audio
    plugins. LV2 has a simple core interface, which
    is accompanied by extensions that add more
    advanced functionality.

    .. seealso: `LV2`_

  MIDI
    :abbr:`MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital Interface)`
    is a technical standard for communication
    between musical instruments and computers.

  MIDI note
    :term:`MIDI` Notes are used to trigger virtual
    (or hardware) instruments.

    .. image:: /_static/img/midi_note.png
       :align: center

  Mono
    A single-channel audio signal (see also
    :term:`Stereo`).

  Pan law
    TODO

  Panning
    Panning is the distribution of a :term:`Mono`
    signal
    into a new stereo or multi-channel sound field.

  Parameter
    Used interchangeably with :term:`Control`.

  Plugin
    A plugin is an external module that provides
    audio processing capabilities to Zrythm, such
    as an :term:`SFZ` instrument or an :term:`LV2`
    reverb plugin.

  Project
    A project refers to a work session. It is saved
    as a directory containing a project file along
    with other auxiliary files. See :ref:`Projects`
    for more details.

  Range
    A Range is a selection of time between two
    positions.

    .. image:: /_static/img/ranges.png
       :align: center

  Region
    A region (or :term:`Clip`) is a container for
    MIDI Notes, audio or other events. See
    :ref:`regions`.

  SFZ
    SFZ is a file format for sample-based virtual instruments.

  SF2
    SF2 is the successor of :term:`SFZ`.

  Stereo
    A two-channel audio signal (left and right) (see
    also :term:`Mono`).

  VST2
    A proprietary plugin standard and the predecessor of VST3. We do not
    recommend using this standard.

  VST3
    VST3 is a plugin standard that supersedes
    :term:`VST2`. It is better to use VST3 than VST2,
    because it is released as :term:`Free software`.

  XRUN
    A buffer overrun or underrun. This means that
    Zrythm was either not fast enough to deliver
    data to the backend or not fast enough to process
    incoming data from the backend. Usually XRUNs
    are audible as crackles or pops.
    XRUNs usually occur when when the audio engine's
    buffer size is too low and the sound card
    cannot process incoming buffers fast enough
    (overrun). Some sound cards cannot cope with
    small buffer sizes, so the buffer length should
    be increased to ease the work done by the sound
    card.
