doc/dev/gtk_tips.md, before:

GTK Tips
========

# dispose() vs finalize() vs destroy()

According to ebassi from GTK:
Rule of thumb: use dispose()
for releasing references to objects you acquired
from the outside, and finalize() to release
memory/references you allocated internally.

There's basically no reason to
override `destroy()`; always use `dispose`/`finalize`.
The "destroy" signal is for
other code, using your widget, to release
references they might have.

# Popovers
Thanks to ebassi from GTK:
always make sure that the popover opens inside
the window; make the window request a minimum
size that allows the popover to be fully
contained; or make the contents of the popover
be small enough to fit into a small top level
parent window

# Specify menu for GtkMenuButton in XML

Specify the id of the menu, like:

```xml
<property name="menu">my_menu_id</property>
```

# Set max height on GtkScrolledWindow

Set `propagate-natural-height` to true and set
max height with `max-content-height`.

# GDK key defines and accel strings

- `include/gtk-3.0/gdk/gdkkeysyms.h`
- `gdk_keyval_name()`
- `gdk_keyval_from_name()`

# Showing popups on startup

First need to set style provider in
`zrythm_app_startup()` otherwise we get segfaults.

 ----

Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Alexandros Theodotou

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any warranty.

Commit message:

add map vs realize explanation in dev docs

doc/dev/gtk_tips.md, after:

GTK Tips
========

# dispose() vs finalize() vs destroy()

According to ebassi from GTK:
Rule of thumb: use dispose()
for releasing references to objects you acquired
from the outside, and finalize() to release
memory/references you allocated internally.

There's basically no reason to
override `destroy()`; always use `dispose`/`finalize`.
The "destroy" signal is for
other code, using your widget, to release
references they might have.

# map() vs realize()

Alexander Mikhaylenko:
```
map - if you put it into a stack and switch pages,
it will map/unmap every time, but will still be
realized the whole time
realized == when it's in a realized window iirc
but basically you can access the window and you have access to rendering stuff
mapped == when it's actually gonna be drawn, yes
```

# Popovers
Thanks to ebassi from GTK:
always make sure that the popover opens inside
the window; make the window request a minimum
size that allows the popover to be fully
contained; or make the contents of the popover
be small enough to fit into a small top level
parent window

# Specify menu for GtkMenuButton in XML

Specify the id of the menu, like:

```xml
<property name="menu">my_menu_id</property>
```

# Set max height on GtkScrolledWindow

Set `propagate-natural-height` to true and set
max height with `max-content-height`.

# GDK key defines and accel strings

- `include/gtk-3.0/gdk/gdkkeysyms.h`
- `gdk_keyval_name()`
- `gdk_keyval_from_name()`

# Showing popups on startup

First need to set style provider in
`zrythm_app_startup()` otherwise we get segfaults.

 ----

Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Alexandros Theodotou

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any warranty.
