doc/user/plugins-files/plugins/plugin-window.rst, before:

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2019-2020, 2022 Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-invariants-or-later
.. This is part of the Zrythm Manual.
   See the file index.rst for copying conditions.

Plugin Window
=============

Custom UIs
----------
When Plugin UIs are opened, a window such as the following
will be displayed, if the plugin ships with its own UI. This
window may contain additions by Zrythm (such as
`File` and `Presets` menus).

.. image:: /_static/img/della_plugin_window.png
   :align: center

Generic UIs
-----------
If the plugin does not ship with its own UI, the following
generic UI will be generated for it.

.. image:: /_static/img/haas_plugin_window.png
   :align: center

Bridging
--------
Most plugins are instantiated in the same process as Zrythm.
This has the advantage that :term:`DSP` is very fast, however,
some plugin UIs are not compatible with Zrythm and need to be
bridged (ie, run as separate processes).

.. note:: When it is possible to bridge only the UI,
  Zrythm will do so, and this will not have any
  performance implications on DSP. If bridging the whole
  plugin is required, this will have some performance
  implications, since it is required to communicate
  with the plugin in another process.

This process is transparent to the user and only
mentioned for reference.

Opening Plugins in Bridged Mode
-------------------------------
Sometimes, you may need to manually tell Zrythm
to open plugins in a specific way. You can find the
options available for each plugin by right clicking
on the plugin in the :ref:`plugin-browser`.

.. figure:: /_static/img/open-plugin-bridged.png
   :align: center

   Opening ZynAddSubFX in bridged mode

Zrythm will remember the last setting used for each
plugin and automatically apply it when you choose to
instantiate that plugin from the plugin browser.

Commit message:

user manual: update plugins section (WIP)

doc/user/plugins-files/plugins/plugin-window.rst, after:

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2019-2020, 2022, 2024 Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-invariants-or-later
.. This is part of the Zrythm Manual.
   See the file index.rst for copying conditions.

Plugin Window
=============

Custom UIs
----------
When Plugin UIs are opened, a window such as the following
will be displayed, if the plugin ships with its own UI.

.. image:: /_static/img/ot-simian-plugin-window.png
   :align: center

Generic UIs
-----------
If the plugin does not ship with its own UI, the following
generic UI will be generated for it.

.. image:: /_static/img/compressor-plugin-window.png
   :align: center

Bridging
--------

By default, plugins are instantiated in a separate process from Zrythm so that Zrythm
doesn't crash if a plugin misbehaves (Zrythm calls this *bridging*). However, this has the side effect that
:term:`DSP` is not as fast as it could be (although fast enough in most
cases), because there is cross-process communication.

Sometimes, you may want to manually tell Zrythm
to open plugins in a specific way. You can find the
options available for each plugin by right clicking
on the plugin in the :ref:`plugin-browser`.

.. figure:: /_static/img/plugin-browser-right-click.png
   :align: center

   Opening Compressor in normal (unbridged) mode

.. tip:: Zrythm will remember the last setting used for each
   plugin and automatically apply it when you choose to
   instantiate that plugin from the plugin browser in the future.
