doc/user/playback-and-recording/bpm-and-time-signatures.rst, before:

.. This is part of the Zrythm Manual.
   Copyright (C) 2019 Alexandros Theodotou <alex at zrythm dot org>
   See the file index.rst for copying conditions.

BPM and Time Signatures
=======================

BPM
---

The :term:`BPM` can be set to between 40 and 360 by
clicking and dragging the BPM widget.

.. image:: /_static/img/bpm-widget.png
   :align: center

Clicking
and dragging on the integer counterpart will
change the integer (e.g., from 140.24 to
141.24) and clicking and dragging on the
decimal counterpart will change the decimal
value (e.g., from 140.24 to 140.25).

Time Signature
--------------

.. image:: /_static/img/time-sig.png
   :align: center

The Time Signature is split into the following

Beats per Bar
  This is the top number that indicates the
  number of Beats that should be in a Bar. It
  can be set from 1 to 16.
Beat Unit
  This is the bottom number that indicates
  the beat unit to be used. It can be set to
  2, 4, 8 or 16.

.. tip:: Widgets like the BPM and Time Signature
   can be changed by clicking and dragging, or by
   hovering over them with the cursor and
   scrolling.

Commit message:

reuse: add some missing license identifiers

doc/user/playback-and-recording/bpm-and-time-signatures.rst, after:

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2019 Alexandros Theodotou <alex@zrythm.org>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-invariants-or-later
   This is part of the Zrythm Manual.
   See the file index.rst for copying conditions.

BPM and Time Signatures
=======================

BPM
---

The :term:`BPM` can be set to between 40 and 360 by
clicking and dragging the BPM widget.

.. image:: /_static/img/bpm-widget.png
   :align: center

Clicking
and dragging on the integer counterpart will
change the integer (e.g., from 140.24 to
141.24) and clicking and dragging on the
decimal counterpart will change the decimal
value (e.g., from 140.24 to 140.25).

Time Signature
--------------

.. image:: /_static/img/time-sig.png
   :align: center

The Time Signature is split into the following

Beats per Bar
  This is the top number that indicates the
  number of Beats that should be in a Bar. It
  can be set from 1 to 16.
Beat Unit
  This is the bottom number that indicates
  the beat unit to be used. It can be set to
  2, 4, 8 or 16.

.. tip:: Widgets like the BPM and Time Signature
   can be changed by clicking and dragging, or by
   hovering over them with the cursor and
   scrolling.
